#### **What is Branch?**

Branch is a way to add new features or modification to the software and not affecting the main part of the project. We can also say that branches create another line of development in the project.

#### **Now Let’s see how to create and switch to a branch:**

- Open Git Bash on your local repository.
- Let’s create a branch by typing “`git checkout -b branchname`.
- Now if you modify the files in the repo and do `git status` it will show you “on Branch branchname” which means you are changing files on the branch you have created.
- Let’s stage these files by using `git add .` and commit these changes by typing **`git commit -m “commit message”`**.
- Now if you do “**git checkout master**” then you will see that the files on your repo will revert to the master branch where we haven’t made any changes.
- Now if we do `git checkout branchname` we will switch from master branch to our newly created branch where we have modified files.

#### **Let’s see how to merge branches:**

- Open Git Bash on your local repository.
- Let’s create a branch by typing `git checkout -b branchname`.
- Now if you modify the files in the repo and do `git status` it will show you “on Branch branchname” which means you are changing files on the branch you have created.
- Let’s stage these files by using `git add .`and commit these changes by typing **`git commit -m “commit message”`** .
- Now if you do `git checkout master` then you will see that the files on your repo will revert to the master branch where we haven’t made any changes.
- Now if we do `git merge branchname` it will merge those branches.
- Now we just need to stage and commit those changes by typing `git add .` & `git commit -m “commit message”`.