---
title: 4. Git file managment and alias
updated: 2024-04-22 20:16:17Z
created: 2023-02-19 20:29:33Z
latitude: 29.14918750
longitude: 75.72165270
altitude: 0.0000
---

## **File Management**

## Deleting Files:

### To delete files using git we need to use this command: `git rm filename.extension`

It will delete the file and if you do “git status” now it will say that the file has been deleted and staged. Now we can commit it by using the “**git commit -m “commit message**” command.

## Renaming Files:

To rename a file we need to use this command: `git mv filename.extension renamefile.extension`

It will rename the file from filename.extension to renamefile.extension. And it will also get automatically staged by git. All we need to do is commit.

## Untracking Tracked Files:

To untrack a specific file we need to use this command: `git rm --cached file.extension`

It will remove that file from the tracker and it will become an untracked file.

## **Alias**

#### **What is Alias?:**

Alias is a term which is associated with shortcuts in Git. It shortens the long commands to increase efficiency. So let’s see how to set up an alias.

#### **Setting Up Alias:**

- Open git bash and now type this command to set up alias for `git status`.
- Type `git config --global alias.st status` and press enter. Now what it means is if we type `git st` it will give us the output of `git status`. Let’s do another one.
- Now type `git config --global alias.unstage ‘restore --staged --’`.
- Now if you type `git unstage` it will work as `git restore --staged --`.
- We can set up as many aliases we want. Like we can create an alias for seeing the last commit done by the user.
- To do that type `git config --global alias.last ‘log -p -1’` .
- Now if we type `git last` it will show us the last commit done by the user.