## ***Git Log***

## Commits History:

### To see the commits made on the git repo, we need to type `git log`. After typing this you can see the commits that have been made on the repo. To exit, we need to type “q” on our keyboard and press enter.

## Diff in Commits:

### To see the Diff in a commit we need to use `git log -p`. It will show what has been changed on a commit.

### To see specific no commits with changes we need to use `git log -p -2`(for seeing the last 2 changes).

## Brief Summary:

### We can get a brief summary of commits by typing `git log --stat`.

### If you want to see the commits on one line then type `git log --pretty=oneline`.

## Customized Commit Output:

### If you just want to see the commits and The author then use `git log --pretty=short`. And if you want a little bit more info like who is the committer, the commit message, then use `git log --pretty=full` or `git log --pretty`

### If you want to filter commits by time, then use this command, `git log --since=2.weeks`.

### To see the last 2 months of data type `git log --since=2.months`.

### We can format the output by using the formatting codes provided on <ins>Git’s</ins> website. For example, we can use this format to print just the author name and the hash: `git log --pretty=format:“%h --%an”`.

## ***Git Restore***

**Let’s say we have a few files in our git repository and we have staged them. Now for some reason, we want to unstage a file. Now how to do that? It is super easy. Let’s see.**

- ### To unstage a file use `git restore file.ext`.
    
- ### To unstage a file using `git restore --staged file.ext`the file will only be removed from the Staging Area - but its actual modifications will remain untouched.
    
- ### It will unstage the file and you can verify it by using `git status`.
    
- ### Now let’s say we have modified the unstaged file and made some changes that were not necessary. Now the program is not working. So we have to restore that file to its previous state where it was working. To do it use `git checkout -- file.ext`. Now it will restore that file to its last commit state.
    
- ### To restore your entire working directory to the previous commit use `git checkout -f`. It will restore your entire directory to the last commit.