### **Let’s start by going to Github’s official website and creating an account. After you have created your account you need to go to the home page and click on the create a new repository option. Now give your repository a name and description. Now click on create repository. Now it will show you a page for quick setup. Now let’s make our local repository a remote repository.**

## ==**Steps:**==

- ### Go to your local directory and open git bash there.
    
- ### Now we have 2 options, 1: If we have not created a git repository in our system then follow the first method, 2: We have a git repo in our local system we just want to push it to the remote system then follow the method 2.
    
- ### We are following Method 2 Here.
    
- ### So let’s copy the code on git’s website which looks like this `git remote add origin git@github.com****:yourusername/repositoryname.git` and paste it to the git bash and press enter.
    
- ### Now we will paste the second command which pushes the files onto the remote server which is `git push -u origin main`.
    
- ### It will give you an error that access is denied. Now let’s tackle this.
    
- ### To fix it, go to your account settings on github, then SSH and GPG keys. Then click on the new SSH key, add a title. Now for the key, open git bash and follow the simple steps.
    
- ### On git bash type the following edit your email and press enter: `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "your_email@example.com`
    
- ### Now just simply press enter 3 times.
    
- ### Now run this command `eval $(ssh-agent -s)`.
    
- ### Now run this `ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa`.
    
- ### Now on git bash type this to reveal your key `tail ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`.
    
- ### Now it will show you the ssh key. Just simply copy it.
    
- ### And now let’s head back to the GitHub SSH key page and paste the key to the key field, press add ssh key. And done!
    
- ### Now if you run `git push -u origin master` it will run and push your files to github.
    
- ### Now you can make changes on your local git repo and push the changes to the remote repo swiftly.
    

## <ins>**Pushing Git Branches To Remote Repositories**</ins>

So let’s open git bash and run `git status` so see if you have any files to track and `git log` to see what you did on your last commits. Also check the branches you have in your repo by typing `git branch`. Now let’s go to github.com and login using our username and password. After that click on New repository, and Give a name and description to your repository and press Create repository. Now look for the “**Push an existing repository from the command line**” tab and copy the first command which looks like this `git remote add origin git@github.com:username/reponame.git`. Now come to the git bash and paste this command. Now if you do `git remote -v` it will show you that Origin has been added. Now Let’s push our code by typing `“git push -u origin main`. Make sure that you have staged and committed your files. When you press enter after the command it will open the GitHub login page, and you just need to login using your same GitHub account and press login.

Now we will push our other branches to GitHub. First let’s switch the branch by typing `git checkout branchname`. And if we now type `git push origin branchname` and press enter, it will push that branch to GitHub and we can check that on GitHub.

We can also merge our branches to the main branch and push the changes. We need to switch to the main branch first by typing **`git checkout main`** Now we will merge the branch by typing `git merge branchname` and merge it. Now we will delete the unnecessary branch by typing `git branch -d branchname`. Now if we do `git status` it will show us only the main branch. And now we will push the changes by typing `git push -u origin main`. Now also remove the branch from remote repository too by typing `git push -d origin branchname`. And now if you check on GitHub you will see that the branch has been deleted.